DAN: Things on Earth were going really well
after the Bakugan came to live with us.
But then, out of nowhere,
we were invaded by these mysterious
and evil Mechtogan
who were intent on destroying everything!
Coredegon, Slycerak,
Exostriker, and Mandibor were their names,
and leading them was this clown Wiseman.
They also had help from an evil pack
of Bakugan called the Nonets.
Luckily for us, he had our own secret weapon
in the form of Dragonoid Destroyer, so we fought back,
because no one is gonna take our freedom,
not now, not ever!
\u266a What are you gonna do?
\u266a The odds are stacked against you \u266a
\u266a Back against the wall
\u266a Got to give it your all
\u266a This is the final stand
\u266a The power's in your hand
\u266a Two worlds collide on the inside \u266a
\u266a You got to fight for what's right \u266a
\u266a Before it's gone, gone, gone
\u266a This is Bakugan
If we don't stop him,
it could mean the total destruction of Earth.
You filthy human and Bakugan swine!
We must hurry! Time is of the essence.
MECHTAVIUS: Behold the terrifying might of my powers!
(Roaring)
(Laughing)
DAN: The Bakugan Battle Brawlers in \"Blast From the Past.\"
DAN: What're you talking about?!
What do you mean Bakugan City is gone?
WORTON: We Bakugan share a collective energy.
I just felt a tremendous loss in this energy,
like several Bakugan have just disappeared.
But a whole city disappearing?
That sounds a bit extreme.
What it really sounds like to me,
is something that Mechtavius Destroyer would do.
Gunz, are you sure?
Although Bakugan City's fate is worrying,
I think we need to be concerned
about what he's going to do next.
Mechtavius Destroyer is intent on annihilating all Bakugan,
which suggests only one thing...
He's heading for New Vestroia.
We have to stop him!
RADIZEN: We gotta take that creep down!
JAAKOR: What are we waiting for?
So this is where those pathetic creatures call home.
New Vestroia is every bit as unimpressive
as the Bakugan who inhabit it.
Huh? What's this?
We got a distress signal from our brothers on Earth!
So we knew your ugly face was heading this way!
(Chuckling)
Hilarious! Does this guy think
just because he's a giant gorilla,
we're going to run away scared?
He doesn't look like much to me!
Then, why don't you come closer?
And I'll show you just how big a deal I am!
AMAZON: You heard the creep!
ELFIN: Let's do this, guys!
AMAZON: How do you like this, pal? Sting a little bit?
Well, there's lots more where that came from!
Whoa-whoa! What? Watch out, guys! Take cover!
(Groaning)
(Screaming)
Oh no! This is bad!
Did you think your miniscule powers
would have had any effect against my might?
But I haven't shown you my favourite move yet!
Amazon Aquos Bomber!
Uh-oh! (Groaning)
Amazon! You're gonna pay for that!
Elfin! Don't do it!
Here's a little drop kick! Yah!
I should have silenced you first!
Hi-yah!
(Whimpering)
(Screaming) I'm sorry, Preyas!
(Screaming)
Elfin! Oh no.
(Whimpering) Oh no.
Your sentimentality makes me shake!
It's worthless in battle.
Slash Rise Thunder!
What?
Huh? Taylean! Ingram! Skyress!
How dare you show up and think
that you can destroy our home and bring chaos to our lives?
We are peaceful,
but you're about to get a taste of our fury!
This ought to be amusing.
Show me what you've got, fools!
Smile for the cannons! Ha-ha!
RADIZEN: Guys, if New Vestroia's in danger,
then why the heck are we still standing around here yakking?
We've gotta do something to help out before it's too late!
(Speaking gibberish)
Why are you arguing with me? You see?
This is what I'm talking about!
It shouldn't even be a discussion!
We should just go now, time is wasting!
Radizen, have you forgotten
that we're in the deepest part of the Doom Dimension?
If Drago couldn't teleport us out of here and back to Earth,
what makes you think we could get back to New Vestroia?
Oh, right. I forgot what an epic fail that was.
Aw man, what the heck are we going to do?
There is another possibility.
We could ride the Current of Time.
DAN: Are you serious?
Slash Hyper - Sword Storm!
I'm going to crush you!
Armoured Intense Mode!
Now you're really starting to make me mad!
You're making it worse for yourselves!
And Glimmering Shadow Slash!
That's it! Stay on him!
Shooting Destruction Slash!
(Groaning)
This should finish him off! Blue Whirlwind!
That should do it.
Yes! He's finished!
Hold on a second.
I don't believe it!
Is he invincible?
Your determination is almost admirable,
if it weren't for your arrogance!
How dare you presume to be a threat to me!
(Groaning)
(Screeching)
It might not be us,
but someone's going to take you down!
(Wailing)
This is so much fun!
I might actually be sad
once I've destroyed every last one of you!
Check it out - the Current of Time.
It's a vortex where the present and the past collide
and create a spiral in the time-space continuum.
WORTON: Up until a short while ago,
I thought this place was only a myth.
When I came back to the Doom Dimension,
I found myself wandering around
and stumbled upon it quite by accident.
Whoa!
I just kept falling and falling, until suddenly I found myself
back in Wiseman's hideout on volcano island.
At first, I had thought I just landed back in the hideout,
but then I heard something familiar
that made me feel like I was experiencing Deja-vu.
BALISTA: Worton!
I saw Balista, which seemed impossible!
Coredegon had already destroyed him,
so either I was dreaming or somehow I had gone back in time.
That's when I realized
I must've travelled on the Current of Time.
There is something that I need to talk to you about.
Is it Wiseman?
Once again, you amaze with how all-seeing you are.
WORTON: And doubts that I had were obliterated
when I saw myself talking to Balista
about how he found a Wiseman double hidden in the cave.
Who could it have been?
Perhaps it was this Gunz character
that the Brawlers were always speaking of.
But if so, where did he come from,
and why did he look identical?
Trust me, Balista. It's better that you forget what you saw.
What?
Just for now.
We need to keep our eyes on the main target.
We can revisit this at another time.
Understood?
Wait a second!
WORTON: Immediately, I thought that I had to somehow stop Balista
from following the same path.
By changing the past, I might just save his life.
That was close. I have to find Balista... fast.
(Yelping)
I didn't have enough energy to stay there on my own,
but I think we need to try and get on the Current of Time
and ride it back to the past!
BETADRON: Agreed.
DRAGO: But if you didn't have enough energy to stay there,
how can we make the leap permanently?
I was just one Bakugan alone who had stumbled upon
the Current of Time purely by accident.
If we all focus our minds and our energy
and make another attempt together...
Our collective energy might be strong enough
to transport us back to the real world for good.
It'll be in the past, but we'll have escaped from this place.
DAN: What?
MARUCHO: I say it's worth a shot!
WORTON: I must warn you
that there is some danger involved.
There is no way to guarantee
exactly where we will land in the past.
BETADRON: Since when have you been unable
to predict such things without certainty, Professor?
The incredible energy created by the Current of Time
coupled with the ripples it makes
in the space-time continuum
cause too much interference
and block my psychic abilities.
We will go in blind, but I don't think we have a choice.
DAN: That's good enough for me, Worton.
You need out of here as badly as we do,
so we trust your opinion.
DRAGO: We're in this together, Professor.
Very well then.
Betadron?
Yeah, yeah. I'm with you!
Trust me, I want to get out of here so I can take down
Mechtavius Destroyer for all he's done to the Nonets!
Understood.
Okay, let's go!
WORTON: Stick together, everyone, and we'll get back home!
DAN: Keep it together, guys,
and we'll take down Mechtavius Destroyer!
(Roaring)
\u266a
(Laughing)
Huh?
This is the end of the line for you, Mechtogan Scum.
You're about to be schooled by both of us!
Well, I hope you prove to be more of a challenge
than those who have already fallen!
AEROGAN: Keep talking, creep, you're the one who's going to fall next!
Whoa!
I doubt you can shoot as high as I can jump!
Don't bet on it!
Velocity Fang! Yah!
(Groaning)
Nice one! How about a little Lightning Smasher for desert?
Oh no!
(Groaning)
We did it, mistress! Wait a second.
(Laughing)
No way!
What's wrong, boy? You seem so surprised!
Hi-yah!
Aerogan!
Hold on, Mistress, I'll hit him from up high again!
I gotta play this right.
Just hold on and look for his blind spot, then attack!
I see you, fool!
Aw snap!
(Screaming)
Aerogan! You're gonna pay for that!
(Roaring)
I'm gonna make you hurt!
Volting Fang! (Roaring)
(Groaning)
Got ya!
I will never be taken down by a Bakugan!
Do you understand?
You should be thankful that your destruction
comes at the hands of one as mighty as me!
(Groaning)
The time of the Bakugan is over!
(Laughing)
That's it, guys! Keep the formation tight!
Whoa! Are you okay Gunz?
Yeah, thanks, pal. That was a really huge bump.
Hold on, guys. The Current is getting stronger.
DAN: Hey, look!
What?
Ability Activate!
Dragon Crasher!
(Roaring)
See that?
That's back when we battled in the V1 Climax round!
BOTH: Whoa.
You're mine now!
SHUN: His focus is good but not perfect.
Who are you calling old?!
What?
Do you remember that, Shun?
I do.
It's when we were first training in the mountains, Jaakor.
(Speaking gibberish)
(Yelping)
Check it out!
That was the day you and Roxtor first combined in battle!
Uh, yeah.
It wasn't my most graceful moment.
Good thing we've got our combo moves down to a science now.
That was so embarrassing.
(Speaking gibberish)
What are you talking about 'I'm the clumsy one'?
The reason that happened is because you tripped me up!
Do we need to watch another instant replay
to refresh your memory?
If we're all done pointing fingers,
could we get back to the task at hand, please?
Ability Activate!
Spar Hook!
Attack!
(Grunting)
(Crowd cheering)
Why are we seeing these visions?
WORTON: They are the manifestations of our most powerful memories.
The Current is picking up on our mental energy
and using them as markers
while it tries to pick a destination point.
Well, I don't want it picking my brain!
Oh, no, no, no!
(Screaming)
Destroy... him...
Go down, you!
(Screaming)
Ahh...
BETADRON: He took down our brothers!
(Screaming)
(Roaring)
I lived through this once! I don't want to see it again!
(Mechtavius laughing)
(Laughing)
Lousy scum!
I'm going to make you pay!
I want to crush him. I want to crush him bad!
Betadron, calm down!
This is ramping up.
Stay sharp you guys, okay?
(Screaming)
What just happened?
WORTON: This is where the current of Time decided to deposit us.
It's somewhere back in the past
that we all have a connection to.
Huh?
Look! The statue!
This is Bakugan City.
GUNZ: Impossible!
MARUCHO: Worton was right about it disappearing.
SHUN: Well, almost right.
Bakugan City didn't so much disappear as it was destroyed,
along with everyone in it!
And we were helpless to stop it from happening!
DRAGO: New Vestroia! Oh no!
Are we too late to save it as well?
All of our brothers and sisters are gone.
Uh-huh.
ORBEUM: Is there nothing we can do?
Unfortunately, no. Whoa!
\u266a
DRAGO: The Current of Time has brought us back to it for a reason.
Maybe it showed us those horrible things as a warning.
Maybe there still is hope.
There has to be!
We can't let Mechtavius Destroyer get away with this!
The Current of Time has given us a gift here.
It has shown us the horrible truth of the future,
and now is giving us an opportunity to make things right
and save all those who have been lost.
We must take advantage of this!
You bet, Professor!
It's time to rewrite history everyone!
Yes! Let's do it!
Okay, Professor, now that they have a plan,
we need to guarantee these guys get off at the right stop!
(Grunting)
What are you doing?
Betadron! Worton!
With our combined energy,
we can temporarily stop the Current of Time
at the spot in history where you need to get off!
Betadron is right.
You mustn't hesitate for even a second!
But what will happen to the two of you if you get left behind?
It's too risky!
Hands off! You can't talk us out of this!
But--
No buts!
I have never loathed anybody as I have Mechtavius Destroyer!
So, if taking him down means sacrificing myself,
then that's the way it has to be!
Just make sure you don't let me down!
Finish him for good! Do you understand, Drago?
It's okay.
Good luck, my friend.
Right there!
I think that's where we need to get off, you guys!
Let's do it!
MARUCHO: The portal is closing!
RADIZEN: Time to giddy up, you guys!
We might not make it,
but we still have to go for it, everyone!
ALL: Right!
You heard the man, failure is not an option here, guys!
BAKUGAN: Right.
Ability Activate!
Dragon Eternal Force!
(Roaring)
MECHTAVIUS: Finally, I am rid of all the vermin
who have stood in the way of my master plan.
Now I can get on with the business
of destroying Bakugan City and all of those who inhabit it!
(Roaring)
(Laughing)
What?!
Where did you miserable insects come from?!
We've come back from the future to stop you in your tracks!
Your days of destruction are over!
We're gonna wipe you from the history books!
DAN: After we saw the complete annihilation of Bakugan City
and New Vestroia by Mechtavius Destroyer,
we thought everything was over.
But then, Professor Worton figured out a way
to go back in time, so we could try and keep it from happening.
Luckily for us, Mira and Julie
were around this time this time to help out
and they totally had our backs.
Dragonoid Destroyer also came out to battle,
but for some reason,
he still wasn't fighting at 100%
I know it sounds really nuts,
but you should tune in to see us completely rewrite history.
We've learned from our past mistakes, so this time,
our battle moves are gonna be perfect!
\u266a